The metadata is provided in a YAML file, which is both dictionary-like and is (actually) human readable. The metadata contains the following fields:

    album: the album the song was released on (optional)
    artist: the artist's full name
    composer: the composer of the song (optional)
    excerpt: indicates if the song is an excerpt
    genre: the genre of the song
    has_bleed: indicates if the stems in the song have bleed
    instrumental: indicates if the song is instrumental
    mix_filename: the name of the song's mix file
    origin: the source from which the song was obtained
    producer: the song's producer (optional)
    raw_dir: the name of the folder containing the raw audio
    stem_dir: the name of the folder containing the stems
    title: the full title of the song
    website: the artist's website (optional)
    stems: stem metadata (a list of dictionaries keyed by stem index)


Each stem, for example "S01" has the following fields:

    component: indicates if the stem contains melody or bass
    filename: the name of the stem's audio file
    instrument: the stem's instrument label
    raw: raw audio metadata (a list of dictionaries keyed by raw index)


Once again, each raw file, for example "R01" has the following fields:

    filename: the name of the raw audio file
    instrument: the raw audio file's instrument label


We go into additional detail about some of these fields below.

Excerpt
Possible values:

    yes
    no

Yes indicates that the song is an excerpt (does not contain a complete song structure). No indicates that the song is a full length song.

Genre
Possible values:

    Singer/Songwriter
    Classical
    Rock
    World/Folk
    Fusion
    Jazz
    Pop
    Musical Theatre
    Rap


Because the notion of genre is quite subjective, we use somewhat general genre labels. These labels should not be considered to be "precise" genre labels. There are many instances where a song could have fallen in multiple genres, and the choices were made so that each genre would be as acoustically homogenous as possible. That being said, our "pop" label (for example) may be quite different than the pop label in another dataset.

Has Bleed
Possible values:

    yes
    no

Yes indicates that some or all of the stems/raw audio files contain bleed from other stems. No indicates that the stems and raw audio files are well isolated.

Instrumental
Possible values:

    yes
    no

Yes indicates that the song does not contain predominant vocals. No indicates that the song contains predominant vocals. Yes does not necessarily mean there are no stems with vocals. For example, a song with for a choir that serves a harmonic purpose would be considered instrumental.

Origin
Possible values:

    Dolan Studio
    Weathervane Music
    Music Delta
    Independent Artist

The label "Dolan Studio" indicates that the song was recorded in NYU's Dolan Recording Studio. "Weathervane Music" indicates that the track was obtained from Weathervane Music's "Shaking Through" series, and were recorded in the same studio. "Music Delta" indicates that the track was given to us by Music Delta. All of the Music Delta tracks were recorded in isolation booths and thus have no bleed. The label "Independent Artist" indicates that the track was given to us by an independent artist, or in other words, "none of the above".

Component
Possible values:

    melody
    bass
    [none]

Melody indicates that the stem contains melodic content at some point in the song. Bass indicates that the stem contains primarily bass line content. This field may also be blank, indicating that the stem contains neither melodic nor bass line content.

Instrument
The possible values for this label are based on this taxonomy, with the addition of the label "Main System". The label "Main System" indicates a stem representing a recording of an entire ensemble. For example, when recording classical music live, it is common to use a "main" microphone system to record the ensemble sound and also mic the instruments individually. The main system is often a primary contributor to the mix, and the individual instrument microphones are used for balance. 

Some taxonomy labels of note:

    violin section: more than one violin
    viola section: more than one viola
    cello section: more than one cello
    string section: more than one string instrument (e.g. 2 violins and 1 viola)
    tack piano: an intentionally out of tune or acoustically altered piano
    flute section: more than one flute
    clarinet section: more than one clarinet
    trumpet section: more than one trumpet
    french horn section: more than one french horn
    trombone section: more than one trombone or bass trombone
    brass section: more than one brass instrument (not including saxophones or other woodwinds)
    horn section: more than one brass or woodwind instrument (must be a mixture of brass & woodwinds)
    vocalists: more than one singer (may be a mixture of male and female)
    auxiliary percussion: more than one percussion instrument (beyond drum set components)
    drum machine: a computer generated drum track from drum set samples, time aligned to a grid
    clean electric guitar: a non-distorted electric guitar
    distorted electric guitar: an electric guitar with noticeable effects processing
    electronic piano: a keyboard using a sound setting that is piano-like
    synthesizer: a keyboard using a (melodic) sound setting that is not piano-like. 
    fx/processed sound: sound effects or ambient noise
    scratches: record scratches
    sampler: similar to drum machine but with samples that are not drum set samples (eg. vocal snippets)
